Layer Models of Networking

	Due to the complexity of network communications, the topic if often conceptualized
	into distinct layers so people can work on specific components rather than 
	everything at once.

	The bottom layer is the most concrete, with each subsequent layer becoming more 
	abstract (relying less on the physical connections and more on code).

	There are various competing models, including the OSI (Open Systems Interconnections
	)
	and TCP/IP Models.
	
	TCP/IP Model Layers
	
	1. Application

	2. Transport

	3. Internet

	4. Link

Link Layer
	
	Point-to-point transmission between devices on the same (local) network.

	Combines physically connection computers with basic addressing and transmission 
	protocols.

	Physical connection

		How to transmit bits between two computers.

	A brief history of physical connections

		Thicknet

			A single coaxial cable runs along the network.

			"Vampire taps" cut into the cable and connect to a computer.

		Thinnet

			A single coaxial cable runs along the network.

			T-Connectors connect computers to the main cable.

		Token Ring
			(irrelevant)

		Ethernet

			Multiple computers connect to a single hub or switch.

			Hub
				Broadcasts the data to all the computers.

			Switch
				Sends data to a specific computer
	TCP/IP Model Layers

	1. Application
	2. trnasport
	3. Internet
	4. Link

		Link Layer
			
			In order for data to be sent between computers:

				Each computer needs a unique address (MAC Address)/
	
				The data needs to be sent in a standarized format (Frames).

				MAC (Media Access Control) Address

					6 - Byte Hex address:2a:00:1e:b9:70:f6

				MAC addresses only need to be unique on the same local network.

			Ethernet Frames
	
				Each frame has the following format

			prefix dest source type data checksum
			8B		6B	6B		2B			4B

			prefix: 10101010 x7 + 10101011

			dest & source: MAC addresses

			data: MTU (Maximum Transmission Unit) of 1500B

			checksum: ensures data integrity

		Internet Layer

			Transmission of data between two separate networks.

			Major features of this layer are addressing and routing.

			Routers are physical devices used to connect different local networks.

			Internet layer traffic ignores the specifics of link layer networks.


			Ip Packets
				
				IP Packets

					Data sent over the internet layer is formatted into IP packets.

						IPv4 packet header

							type size fragment info ttl protocol header checksum
							2B   2B    4B            1B   1B      2B

						type: IPv4/v6, length of header

						size: Total size of the packet

						fragment info: full payloads may be broken into multiple
										fragments. Each packet will count the
										number of fragments and its individual fragment
										number.
						ttl(time-to-live): Maximum number of hops a packet can make
										before reaching its destination.

						protocol: TPC/UDP...

						header checksum: only a checksum of the header, not the full
											packet

						IPv4 Packet format
	
							header source destination data
							12B		4B		4B

							source & destination: IPv4 addresses

							data: MTU is 65,535 Bytes

			Routing

				Routers may break IPv4 packets fragments.

				When a router receives a packet, it has 2 options:

					1.Send that packet to the attached local network.

					2. Forward that packet to a different router.

			IPV4/IPv6 differences

				Address space

					2^32/2^128

				Packet format

					In addition to address size change, IPv6 packet headers have less
					information. They do not include a checksum or fragment information.
					
				MTU
					IPv6 can allot for an MTU of 2^32 (these are called jumbograms)

				IPv6 puts more work onto Link layer devices and individual hosts
				(computers)

					IPv6 does not fragment packets at all, relying on other devices
					to potentially take advantage of jumbograms

					IPv6 has no checksum, assuming Link layer devices and hosts will
					check for data integrity if needed.

				
			Transport Layer

				Computer to computer connection over a network.

				Unconcerned with the invidiual hops of layer 3 traffic.

				Network ports are used at the transport layer.

				TCP and UDP are transport layer protocols. 

			Application Layer

				Everything else...
			Transport Layer

				Computer to computer connection over a network.

				Unconcerned with the invidiual hops of layer 3 traffic.

				Network ports are used at the transport layer.

				TCP and UDP are transport layer protocols. 

			Application Layer

				Everything else...
